
=head1 NAME

Venus::Kind - Kind Base Class

=cut

=head1 ABSTRACT

Kind Base Class for Perl 5

=cut

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  package Example;

  use Venus::Class;

  extends 'Venus::Kind';

  package main;

  my $example = Example->new;

=cut

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This package provides identity and methods common across all L<Venus> classes.

=cut

=head1 INTEGRATES

This package integrates behaviors from:

L<Venus::Role::Boxable>

L<Venus::Role::Catchable>

L<Venus::Role::Digestable>

L<Venus::Role::Doable>

L<Venus::Role::Dumpable>

L<Venus::Role::Matchable>

L<Venus::Role::Printable>

L<Venus::Role::Throwable>

=cut

=head1 METHODS

This package provides the following methods:

=cut

=head2 class

  class() (Str)

The class method returns the class name for the given class or object.

I<Since C<0.01>>

=over 4

=item class example 1

  # given: synopsis;

  my $class = $example->class;

  # "Example"

=back

=cut

=head2 safe

  safe(Str | CodeRef $code, Any @args) (Any)

The safe method dispatches the method call or executes the callback and returns
the result, supressing warnings and exceptions. If an exception is thrown this
method will return C<undef>. This method supports dispatching, i.e. providing a
method name and arguments whose return value will be acted on by this method.

I<Since C<0.08>>

=over 4

=item safe example 1

  # given: synopsis;

  my $safe = $example->safe('class');

  # "Example"

=back

=over 4

=item safe example 2

  # given: synopsis;

  my $safe = $example->safe(sub {
    ${_}->class / 2
  });

  # '0'

=back

=over 4

=item safe example 3

  # given: synopsis;

  my $safe = $example->safe(sub {
    die;
  });

  # undef

=back

=cut

=head2 space

  space() (Space)

The space method returns a L<Venus::Space> object for the given object.

I<Since C<0.01>>

=over 4

=item space example 1

  # given: synopsis;

  my $space = $example->space;

  # bless({ value => "Example" }, "Venus::Space")

=back

=cut

=head2 trap

  trap(Str | CodeRef $code, Any @args) (Tuple[ArrayRef, ArrayRef, ArrayRef])

The trap method dispatches the method call or executes the callback and returns
a tuple (i.e. a 3-element arrayref) with the results, warnings, and exceptions
from the code execution. If an exception is thrown, the results (i.e. the
1st-element) will be an empty arrayref. This method supports dispatching, i.e.
providing a method name and arguments whose return value will be acted on by
this method.

I<Since C<0.08>>

=over 4

=item trap example 1

  # given: synopsis;

  my $result = $example->trap('class');

  # ["Example"]

=back

=over 4

=item trap example 2

  # given: synopsis;

  my ($results, $warnings, $errors) = $example->trap('class');

  # (["Example"], [], [])

=back

=over 4

=item trap example 3

  # given: synopsis;

  my $trap = $example->trap(sub {
    ${_}->class / 2
  });

  # ["0"]

=back

=over 4

=item trap example 4

  # given: synopsis;

  my ($results, $warnings, $errors) = $example->trap(sub {
    ${_}->class / 2
  });

  # (["0"], ["Argument ... isn't numeric in division ..."], [])

=back

=over 4

=item trap example 5

  # given: synopsis;

  my $trap = $example->trap(sub {
    die;
  });

  # []

=back

=over 4

=item trap example 6

  # given: synopsis;

  my ($results, $warnings, $errors) = $example->trap(sub {
    die;
  });

  # ([], [], ["Died..."])

=back

=cut

=head2 type

  type() (Type)

The type method returns a L<Venus::Type> object for the given object.

I<Since C<0.01>>

=over 4

=item type example 1

  # given: synopsis;

  my $type = $example->type;

  # bless({ value => bless({}, "Example") }, "Venus::Type")

=back

=cut

=head1 AUTHORS

Cpanery, C<cpanery@cpan.org>

=cut

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2021, Cpanery

Read the L<"license"|https://github.com/cpanery/venus/blob/master/LICENSE> file.

=cut